I’m scared.
We have to stay lucid.
We’re going to kill ourselves.
Move fast, move fast!
Hurry up!
Go, go, go!
Everest...
The highest
mountain in the world.
It’s located in the Himalayas,
between Nepal and China.
It’s a legendary peak that has
fascinated mountaineers for ages.
And venturing to such extreme
altitudes means taking big risks.
There are huge crevasses...
and a freezing cold...
that can claim your limbs.
There are avalanches...
and of course,
there is the altitude.
The higher you go...
the more your body wastes away.
Beyond 7500 meters...
is what we call the “Death Zone.”
And if
your body can’t handle it...
you risk pulmonary edema...
and swelling of the brain...
and you could lose your sight.
In the Death Zone,
it’s you and yourself.
There is no rescue...
no helicopter...
and it’s almost impossible
to bring the bodies down.
And despite that...
more than a century ago...
expeditions set out to reach the
summit of Everest,
but to no avail.
In 1953...
Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary
reach the
summit for the first time.
I’ve always been impressed
by those who push their limits.
I think it comes from the mangas
I started reading as a child.
They’re always
stories with a hero...
who has...
impossible dreams!
And somehow,
he manages to achieve them.
But at the time...
the only way for me
to live out great adventures...
was through video games.
Let’s go on an adventure!
Actually, Minecraft...
is a game
where there’s no real objective.
You meet up with your friends and
create the adventures you want.
All right, we did it, guys!
Soon afterwards,
I wanted to share them,
so I created my YouTube channel.
Here we are for my
first video on YouTube,
my name is Inoxtag.
That’s it, I’ve said enough!
I did it.
It was my dream to be a YouTuber.
Thanks to everyone who has been
there so far, on the channel!
There are 100,000 of us.
So, I thought,
if I do in video games...
why not do it for real?
I really challenged myself.
Today,
we’re going to learn survival.
I created concepts.
A deadly
epidemic has broken out.
For example, 48 hours to
survive a zombie invasion.
We all played
a werewolf game with cards,
so I thought,
why not do it in real life?
This village
is going to be infiltrated.
We’re going to spend
7 days alone on a desert island.
And more and more of you
were following the adventures.
YouTube allowed me
to realize my dreams.
And a year ago...
I decided to embark on a
rather special adventure.
He made a big
announcement on his channel...
He announced that he
wants to climb Everest.
It’s the highest
peak in the world...
He comes off
as slightly crazy in his videos.
After the announcement,
I go online and see that
everyone is talking about it.
I got many messages of support!
But I was insulted as well.
Well, it disrupts the environment
of a mountain that I adore.
But what’s left then?
Is it just so
you can say you went up there?
But no!
You violated Everest! I mean,
I mean, you didn’t see anything!
And I understand these people.
I’m not from that background...
But then I think, why not try?
If I’m not ready,
I can turn back.
At worst I fail...
but at least I learned something.
Though,
one thing is for certain...
I will have to change.
Because at that moment,
my daily life is catastrophic.
Welcome to my home.
Or I guess, the bathroom!
Honestly, it’s embarrassing.
I’m ashamed right now.
I had to move,
and it took longer than expected.
I came over here,
to my parents’ house.
I said: “It’s fine,
put me in the bathroom.”
“It won’t be for long anyway,
I’m moving out soon.”
Fast forward, and I’ve
been in here for a year, bro!
Living in
a bathroom is pretty crazy.
There are flags outside as well.
Let’s close this.
Look, I’ll show you how it goes.
I finish my live at 2 in the
morning...
and I’m exhausted.
I open the door, like that.
I take off my socks,
I take off my clothes...
I brush my teeth,
then I go here...
and “ciao.”
I sleep...
then I wake up...
The wardrobe is empty...
so I go in the bathtub...
I put on some shorts...
I go walk the dog,
I shower upstairs, and I leave.
And that’s it!
Bro, I don’t really live here!
I just come...
drop off my stuff,
grab some new things,
and take off the next day!
Come on, let’s go!
Well,
if I had to own up to one thing,
my lifestyle is catastrophic.
I sleep badly...
I’m jetlagged...
I eat badly,
I don’t pay attention...
and physically? Forget about it.
When he announced the project...
he wasn’t physically fit.
Okay, what’s our pace?
Uh, really slow.
Man, my cardio is shit!
He never played
sports that involved cardio.
So, it’s a quality that he...
he never developed.
Do you... He’s walking!
This is what I call jogging!
I thought I looked impressive,
but I guess not!
-I’m not doing anything!
-Come on Inox, don’t give up!
All right.
-What’s your BPM now?
-143!
The amount of
training required...
to reach a goal like that in one
year is completely overwhelming.
Some people will take...
5 years to reach
that kind of goal.
So, I was definitely uneasy.
That’s why I had to
concoct a year-long
intensive program for him.
It would allow him to reach his
goal, if he could stick to it.
I don’t feel so good.
I thought my heart
was going to stop.
I was already dead at the end,
and when you said,
“give it your all?”
Man... It was horrible.
That’s the shitty part.
That’s... the real shitty part.
All the red is filming.
The red is for filming.
That schedule’s crazy.
With all those videos...
people, people are going to say,
“Either he’s changing his life,
or he’s training for Everest,
or he’s making videos.
I don’t get it, because he’s
keeping the same pace as before.”
You said you would be willing
to pause YouTube for Everest.
Well, we’ve
made it to that crossroad...
where we’re going to have to
cut video production in half,
all right.
Remove one out of every two limit
it to two videos a month instead.
So, we go from...
four videos per month...
to two videos per month.
The training had to be arranged
around his life as a YouTuber.
A good, fairly solid workout...
One which wouldn’t
cause him to burnout.
Idriss was essential for
my physical preparation...
but someone was missing
for the mountaineering aspect.
But I didn’t know anyone,
so I called Nico Mathieu,
my adventuring buddy.
And he told
me about a guy called Mathis.
Mathis is a mountain guide.
He’s also a photographer
and a director, and he’s only 29.
He’s the new generation of
mountaineering.
He’s done so much.
When I heard about the
project for the first time, uh...
I said to myself...
“Wow, the guy’s a YouTuber
and he’s going to go to Everest!”
I admit that at the time,
I definitely was...
apprehensive about the project.
I thought, “This guy, uh...
He wants to take
on a challenge...
He wants to be well known...
Uh... Is he doing it
for the right reasons?
The right motivations?”
But I still wanted to meet him.
So, I told him
to come to my house in Chamonix
for three weeks, so he could
learn about mountaineering...
Then we’d see what we could do.
Grab it with your hand,
then slide on down...
and go back.
-Grab it with my hand...
-Yeah. Exactly!
Then I get my hand and slide
it down... and then, I go back.
Exactly.
But look, you really
have to trust the person!
I mean,
why should I blindly trust you?
If you fall, I’ll end up dead!
I’m going to have to
trust you!
I know I won’t fall, you know?
Let’s see if he knows
how to correctly tie a knot.
I’m going to tie a figure eight
knot. You’re going to be shocked.
So far, not great.
Don’t you have
that in Minecraft?
Aw damn, I messed up.
Stupid figure eight knot!
Can I go up with this?
Yeah, you can. After...
Good luck,
we’re not tied together!
I’ll give you a tip.
Make a simple figure 8 knot,
then make the double one.
Okay.
Now I got it.
So, just follow the rope.
My first real knot!
Yes. Keep going...
You have
to keep your heels lower,
you’re still raising
up them too much.
There you go, that’s better.
That was scary!
Remember to lower your heels,
Inox!
Should I give him a little rope?
Yeah, he’s acting smug.
Easy! Whoa! You bastard!
I almost had a heart attack!
-Let’s do this.
-I’m ready!
It’s my first time
in the mountains,
and to be honest,
they made fun of me.
Everything went
well with Mathis...
In fact, he brought along Léo
Slemett, the world ski champ.
No pressure, it was just
my first training session...
It looks
sorta scary from up here.
Honestly, it looks unclimbable.
Uh, Inox?
Keep an eye on the descender.
Okay.
-Shit! What the...
-Be careful! Watch out!
The descender just fell!
-You guys are crazy!
-My bad!
Dammit,
I can’t believe I dropped it.
I’m an idiot.
I can’t go back down.
Hey, Mathis? What do I do
if the descender falls down?
Don’t worry,
we’ll find a solution.
Wow, that drop is crazy.
That was really stressful.
Well done, bro.
-Yeah, but I’m an idiot!
-Why?
Dropping the descender
like that was a stupid mistake.
You have to be careful.
That’s why there’s...
Dammit... Because of me,
we both have to pay.
There are techniques you
can use...
but they’re annoying.
It’s a pain without one.
Dammit, I’m so stupid.
I’m sorry.
No biggie. It could be worse.
It’s a mistake I
shouldn’t have made.
-I’ll never do that again.
-Be more careful in future.
What I like about Mathis,
is that he introduced
me to mountain sports.
Welcome to the Mountains.
Look at that!
Now we’re really getting started!
It’s incredible!
But it’s kinda scary in
real life. The drop is...
-It’s thousands of meters. So...
-So, if we fall, we’re dead.
If we fall, we’re dead.
We don’t stand a chance.
Okay.
Well, isn’t that reassuring
for a first expedition!
If we fall on either side,
it’s the end.
-We’d be dead, right?
-Yeah, we’d be dead.
Uh, we’ll be close to that
big serac...
it’s just below.
Seracs
are actually big blocks of ice
that are
attached to the mountain,
and they
can collapse at any moment.
But there are times when
you have to go under a serac
and whether you’re...
Kilian Jornet, Nims Dai, or...
some guy from Paris who’s doing
it for the very first time...
everyone takes the same risk.
Damn, that’s crazy, huh?
You go...
and if it falls, then good luck!
It could fall on you.
It happens randomly.
We’re here to minimize the risk,
but if you get unlucky, uh...
you’ll be crushed.
-Whoa, dude!
-Stop it! What the heck?
What a pain in the butt!
You’re so annoying!
He’s already salty,
and I just got here!
I just arrived and he’s salty!
What’s up, man?
Jeez! Come on, dude, damn! Bro,
you know that I don’t like that!
I mean, come on!
Imagine,
he gets back from the mountain:
“Dude,
I’m gonna become a mountaineer.”
-I’m gonna become a mountaineer!
-I knew it!
I felt like they
wanted to transmit...
the true art of mountaineering.
It’s an art, it’s...
a discipline!
And they’re open to
teaching me how to, uh...
do things well...
and to really
experience mountaineering.
I’m really pleasantly surprised,
he’s in good shape.
He picks up all the
mountaineering
techniques pretty quickly,
and he’s really improved his
climbing and
crampon techniques...
so that’s great.
I kicked and moved,
and kicked and moved
I saw you, you were
really swinging your ice axe!
After spending
some time with him,
I agreed to
accompany him on his adventure.
Although, we still don’t know...
how his body
will react to the high altitude.
We haven’t gone
above 4000 meters yet.
When you
announce such a big project...
and don’t know if your
body can handle the altitude,
you may not even be
able to climb Mont Blanc.
And Everest? Forget about it!
For the moment,
Inès has no idea...
how his body will
react to the altitude.
So, it’s imperative that he
does a stress test under hypoxia.
So, today is test day.
It’s the hypoxia test.
It will
allow us to test your body’s
resistance to a lack of oxygen.
The higher you go, the less
oxygen you’ll have access to.
This is one of the...
best indicators to know
if you’re up to this or not.
And, unfortunately,
it’s something that
doesn’t change with training.
If you don’t test well...
It’s over. So long, adventure.
So, then...
even if I work hard and
train for a whole year...
that’s it,
the parameter can’t be changed.
You’d be screwed. It’s over.
You go back home.
Begin!
So,
we’ve taken you up in altitude...
then you came back down,
went back up, etcetera.
Now, we’re going to
begin the second phase,
and push you to the maximum.
Show your true level?
Push through, push through...
That’s it, use your rage!
Go for it!
That’s it, keep going!
Use your rage!
You’re good,
you’re good, you’re good!
Go! You got this!
Don’t stop, don’t stop!
You’re almost there!
So, Inès...
your heart just accelerated
to 195 beats per minute...
and you reached a VO2 max...
of, uh, 51.7.
Which means...
you may be more comfortable
when exerting force...
but at very high altitudes,
it’s not necessarily
a major advantage.
And what would be an advantage
when you’re going to...
An advantage would be a good
ventilatory response to hypoxia,
in other words...
good chemoreceptors,
which is what we tested
during the first phase.
Here you go...
So, as you can see, the results
are listed right
here on this piece of paper...
which will allow
you to visualize
your tolerance to high altitudes.
Okay.
So, you got a 3 and 5,
and normal is less than 5.5.
So, you’re good in either case.
However, you should know that
Everest is still dangerous, huh?
There’s the altitude,
and there’s the cold...
there’s the risk of avalanches,
of falling seracs, uh...
Yeah, there are lots of
elements to take into account.
the level of danger
associated
with this kind of objective.
Right.
Now that he’s passed the test...
we’re going to get
down to business.
We’re going to go up there?!
Are you trying to kill me?!
No...
at least, not yet.
This rock is scary, bro
Why’s that? What scares you?
It’s so steep!
And it’s huge!
Come on!
You’re doing good, bro.
Come on...
mind over matter...
Look at that...
-It must be, like, 4,000 meters!
-Yeah, it’s an impressive drop.
I’ve never been so
scared in my whole life!
It’s good for you!
You wanted
us to do more stuff, so we are!
No, but more of a...
beginner level, you know?
-Bro... I...
-Have you ever done this one?
-No, never.
-Are you serious?
First time for us both!
-Are you kidding me?
-Oh, yeah! First timers!
You’ve never done it?
No, never!
What difference does it make?
Oh, man, this guy is crazy!
He’s never climbed it,
but he brings me!
Yo dude,
have you seen how steep it is?
Did you
even look at the mountain face?
Yeah, I see it...
It’s pretty steep.
It’s hard now,
but we’ll be glad we did it.
Yes.
We’ll grab a big burger
down there...
when we get down.
If we’re still alive.
You got this, bro. Come on.
We did it.
I’m happy with you.
Good work, bro.
That’s good, you did well.
We did it... Thank you, Mathis.
Congratulations.
That took real courage.
I’m proud of you, bro.
Thanks, bro.
It’s all thanks to you.
You truly outdid yourself.
Now this part’s really scary.
-My leg is shaking by itself.
-Go ahead, be careful.
Okay... okay...
stay calm...
Stay calm, Inès! Stay calm.
Holy shit, bro!
Oh my God!
I’m telling you...
that summit was the worst.
It was the worst.
Well,
it’s only going to get worse.
I told you...
this summer will be busy.
Mont Blanc,
the highest peak in the Alps.
Let’s go!
Don’t go into the red.
Tell me if I’m too fast.
I’m following you.
I’m not slowing down yet.
I can’t believe my eyes.
It’s
an incredible feeling, brother.
Pack your things,
we’re going to Switzerland!
Are you telling me that we’re
going to climb another mountain!
In Switzerland with the Swiss!
-Can you see from here?
-Normally.
What a monster!
The mountain...
is terrifying!
I took Aminé
and Idriss to climb Toubkal!
-“Toubkal.”
-“Tupac?”
It’s the
highest mountain in North Africa.
4200 meters!
The goal is not to complain.
I’m not going to stop.
Are you sleeping? Let’s go!
Then,
I got a call from Nico Mathieu...
who suggested I
cross Corsica on foot.
Cross Corsica on the trail.
This is the start of the GR20.
5 days of walking with Nico,
non-stop!
As for Everest, mentally,
there’s nothing better
to build a mind of steel.
And we continue...
We continue...
and we don’t stop.
He’s running now,
I can’t take it.
Chill, it’s all good.
We did so much...
and my mom even joined us.
-Are you getting tired, Mom?
-No...
but I would get tired when
you would refuse to go outside!
-Because of the computer?
-Yes!
When I was 13.
He wanted to spend
the day in front of the computer?
Go in the bush behind you! Now,
press P. Press the P.
You got it.
When did
you really get into playing?
When my mom got a PC,
I installed Minecraft on it,
and I think she
regretted buying that computer.
No.
No, but I
would have if you hadn’t gotten
to where you are now,
outside in nature.
I have no regrets,
because finally...
you’ve discovered life.
It’s amazing.
Amazing!
It’s incredible up here!
Is this the end?
Hey, look at this!
The summit!
Let’s go!
Thank you, Mathis.
You made my life beautiful.
But seriously,
I’m being serious...
I’ve discovered a
real passion for this.
In recent years, I haven’t
been that close to my parents,
so, I, uh...
decided to give my mother a gift.
This is our destination.
No, no way.
You wanted to fly,
so we’re gonna fly.
-Shall we go over then?
-Let’s do it!
How beautiful, thank you!
Mathis, did you wake up one day
and say to yourself, “I’m gonna
join that silly little YouTuber”?
Why did
you suddenly say to yourself...
“I think...
that I’m,
I’m gonna share in his delirium”?
Well, in the beginning...
when you and I met,
I saw your approach.
Okay, this guy doesn’t just want
to do Everest, he wants to...
discover the mountain.
So, basically...
I said to myself...
okay, the project is cool...
because you actually wanted
to discover the mountain...
and because you
wanted to go further...
than just reaching
Everest’s summit.
So, I think
that the path you chose to take,
that you agreed to take...
to me, it’s the right approach.
And I’m...
really happy with the
progress in our journey so far...
but this is only the
end of phase one.
We’ve done some of the highest
peaks we could do in the Alps,
so now, we have to
start the next phase...
heading to Nepal.
The hardest part is yet to come.
The hardest part is yet to come?
Ama Dablam.
6,812 meters.
It’s considered by many to be
the most beautiful
mountain in the world.
For our body to withstand
such an extreme altitude,
it will have to acclimatize
to the lack of oxygen.
So, we’re going to do a 10-day
trek in the Himalayan valley,
going from village to village,
to adjust to the altitude...
and thus reach the base camp,
where we will leave
to attempt the summit
without the help of oxygen tanks.
Inès has only 6
months of training...
and the challenge is immense.
We depart tomorrow!
Are you ready?
We depart tomorrow, but...
we’re ready.
You know what?
Yesterday, I went to a restaurant
with my dad and with my mom.
My dad’s really worried.
-Oh, yeah?
-Yeah, he’s really worried.
And he gave me a
fifty-minute speech!
I thought to myself,
I have to record this.
Because...
if one day
I’m in trouble,
or lacking
motivation, I’ll listen to it.
He told me, uh...
Well, I’ll play it to myself,
and...
it’ll remind me what he said.
-If you listen to it...
-Wait, you recorded
your father at the restaurant?
Without him knowing?
You see who you are today...
Man, I guarantee it.
I’m dead!
He’d kill me if
he knew I recorded what he said!
He was talking...
And he had tears in his eyes.
I could feel it. His voice was...
trembling, you know?
I realized
that they’re scared for me.
So, are you scared?
Me?! Are you crazy?
I can’t wait to be there!
Kisses.
Don’t worry, we’ll be back soon.
I’ll message you, I have 4G...
-but I won’t be on my phone much.
-Don’t worry! I understand.
-No stress, no stress...
-I’m not expecting any updates.
-I just want the good news.
-We’ll be back in a month.
In a month.
I think she
was stressed over you leaving.
Oh, yeah,
she was saying to me, like...
“You never know,
something might happen.”
But it’s going to be okay.
Go, go, go!
It’s such a big mess!
Everything is so messy, it’s
like my room...
but it’s a city!
What the hell is going on?!
The cows are
running into the door!
What the hell is going on?!
You see that?! Even the
cows are passing us by now!
Short, short, huh?
What a bastard.
Marion is going to smack
him when he goes home!
Oh, crap.
Oh, Mathis!
-Is it good or bad?
-Honestly...
the guy did you good.
All right, let’s go,
Mister Swiss.
I know...
it’s Tintin when
he gets back from the rocket.
-You think?
-You’re such a bastard, bro!
We grazed the ground!
Oh, that was crazy!
Here we go buddy!
Look how incredible it is!
You can see the whole city!
Today, we made the
trip from Kathmandu...
to Lukla.
We’re in the jungle
at a low altitude, about 2008.
Next, we’ll go up to Namche...
the Sherpa village,
the Sherpa capital.
I’m at...
100% battery!
I am at 100%, Mathis.
I’m at
100%, and I’ll stay at 100%!
-Awesome.
-All the way down the mountain!
And when I see Ama Dablam...
We go!
You know,
these are prayer wheels.
They’re prayer wheels?
Every time it turns,
it says a prayer.
You have to turn it clockwise...
always turn it clockwise.
I like it here.
It feels spiritual.
It makes me feel good.
I feel recharged.
In places like this...
I feel like I can
empty my mind...
like I don’t have to
think about anything.
I’m not here thinking about...
“What am I doing tomorrow?”
“Should I make a video?”
Thinking
about YouTube all the time...
So, I’m finally here...
and it’s amazing,
beyond my wildest dreams!
Now that I’m here
in the mountains...
There’s nothing else.
My brain is completely
focused on the present.
I think
that’s what life is about.
You have to, you have to
discover, and you have to...
You have to want to learn.
I don’t want to
stay in my bubble, in my cocoon.
I think, to find what you like...
to discover your passion...
You have to get up,
you have to stand up...
and turn off the TV
and go outside! And...
I don’t know,
you have to try things!
There are things that
cost nothing to try out.
-Hello!
-Hello.
-You good?
-Yeah, I’m good.
-So, you’ve climbed Everest?
-Yes, yes.
-He’s climbed it 12 times.
-12 times!
-12 times.
-You’ve gone to the top?
Yeah.
And he’s lost fingers.
It’s stuck now.
-Ah, he can’t move that finger.
-This finger as well.
And that one too.
-It’s gone too.
-He can’t feel anything.
Now there’s only four.
You can’t feel anything?
It’s gone now?
I think it’s all numb now.
When you lack oxygen...
the blood
doesn’t go to the extremities.
It goes to the vital points.
So, when
you go back down the mountain...
there’s a chance that
you might lose a finger.
Will you going to go back to
Everest, or are you stopping?
I’m going back.
Yeah.
He’ll try.
He’ll try again in Spring.
-In Spring. In Spring.
-Next Spring,
you’re to going back?
Yeah, he’s going back.
He’ll go back next year.
Going up Everest allows
him to support his family.
Otherwise...
he would never go just for fun,
you know?
He never says to himself “I
feel like climbing Everest.”
It’s to support his family.
It’s because he has no choice.
It’s a good source of
income in Nepal, so he does it.
For us Westerners...
we consider it a luxury.
It’s a dream to achieve,
an adventure...
because we can afford it.
But for him...
it’s different.
It’s for survival.
We go there for fun!
And he goes so he can eat.
-Namaste!
Do you know YouTube?
-Yes! Yes!
-That’s right!
She’s making fun of me.
You see how she’s
making fun of me?!
Manish!
And...
Manish is our Nepalese cameraman,
and he’ll be joining us.
How ya doin’?
-Are you good? “I’m good!”
-I’m good!
-I’m good! I’m good!
There you go! “I’m good!”
And there’s Ila Nuru...
our local guide.
Ila Nuru, lent me his glasses.
And Dorji... the lead Sherpa.
And he’s climbed
Everest 19 times.
He invited us over. Awesome!
Would you look at that?
Mind your head! Be careful!
-Jeez, Dorji!
-I warned you!
Hey listen, Dorji...
Looks good.
She’s
cooking potatoes from the garden.
-Are you vegetarian?
-Yeah.
-You can’t kill anything.
-Yeah, because...
everybody
is connected to all species.
-So, you’re vegetarians.
-Yeah.
You too Ila Nuru? You veg?
Veggies and meat.
That dude is hilarious!
Ila Nuru is so funny!
-Fifty, fifty.
-He answered the question.
Veggies and meat!
And as usual,
I’m accompanied by Mathis.
And Jordan,
who’s here to film with Manish.
And Samy, in production.
And there’s Léo Slemett,
world ski champion,
who was there during my
first mountaineering session.
Let’s hit Ama Dablam!
When I met you 4 months ago,
I never thought I’d
be going with you to Ama Dablam.
What a bastard!
Whoa, bro!
We’re going to climb that?
Yes!
We’re
really going to climb that?!
No, way! It’s crazy!
Just look at it, it’s a pyramid!
-Oh, it’s so crazy!
-It’s great.
Ama Dablam. Look at that!
The summit is scary!
-Yeah, it’s scary.
-Oh, it’s so scary!
I admit that I’ve...
seen a lot of mountains,
but I’m excited about this one.
This one’s gonna be amazing!
You know, Chamonix is
scary in Europe, but this is a...
whole other level.
To me, it’s like...
I’m afraid of one thing...
not being up there.
I can’t guarantee that I won’t...
get a headache,
or get diarrhea, I don’t know.
Are you, are you sure
you want to be up there?
I’m sure I want to be up there.
You’re having doubts,
and you want to know
if it’ll affect your body.
Yeah.
I get it.
I would rather
conquer this one over Everest.
-Oh, yeah?
-Yeah, it’s really beautiful.
Remember when you made the...
announcement about Everest?
I made a mistake
and put that one!
You got the wrong mountain!
It’s a sign, it was written...
so we have to climb it, bro.
Many people think it’s the most
beautiful mountain in the world.
As you can see, under the
last slope there’s a kind of...
of serac that looks threatening.
It actually
collapsed last spring.
It was at the base camp.
Yeah,
look at the valley it created.
Listen to
the noise it’s making...
-Now that’s scary, right?
-Yeah.
Yeah!
Dorji, were you at the base
camp filming the video?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
That’s crazy...
Even if the snow doesn’t hit you,
it can be hard to breathe.
It moves so much air,
that you just feel it go...
Right. You know, it can ravage
the base
camp and people get killed.
It’s scary.
We’re gonna do Ama Dablam!
6800 meters!
The highest
mountain that I’ve ever climbed!
It’s absolutely insane!
I’m feeling good!
Right, Manish?
Break the record again!
Summit!
-Are you good?
-Yeah, I’m good!
Where are the fashionistas?
He’s so strong! He did eight.
One final message, yeah!
And this is how
you skip a stone!
Wait a sec...
That’s stone skipping?
Yeah!
It’s time to commit a murder!
-Are you good?
-Yeah, I’m good!
-That sounds good.
-Okay.
All right, you’re up next.
Eight, nine...
And...
-one more card.
-Now it’s your turn.
Dude it’s
almost too hot in here.
-Okay, I got a 12.
-Okay, I have a 6.
All right,
so what card do you have now?
A 9.
-And you?
-20.
I feel really sick.
I’m sure it’s a virus.
-It might be the altitude.
-No...
I had the same thing in Paris.
-I will come back.
-You’re strong, man.
-We’ll go to the summit, man.
-Yes, sir!
-Nobody will stop me.
-Nobody!
I will come again, man!
Yeah, yeah, yeah!
He’s already coming back!
-Yeah, I’m coming back.
-I can see that smile!
Yeah, smile!
I know I shouldn’t be sick.
I just had to get sick...
I had to get sick right now!
One day before, man!
It’s not like I got
sick 6 days ago...
so I could have time to recover!
I got sick one day before!
It’s driving me crazy!
I’m so upset.
I’m not
gonna be better in 4 days.
I can’t believe
this is happening.
We can do one night there...
tomorrow we’ll see how you are.
If you’re
not well in the morning,
we’ll take the day off. Okay?
If things don’t look good,
we’ll decide whether we should
go back down or
even just give up.
We’re not going to put ourselves
in danger
or mess up our health...
for a mountain that will still
be there in 10 or 20 years.
That’s how it goes,
sometimes it
works out, sometimes it doesn’t.
Sometimes our
bodies let us down,
sometimes it’s the weather,
there are a thousand reasons,
there are a billion
expeditions that have failed.
You know, we shouldn’t...
We shouldn’t
beat ourselves up if it
doesn’t work out, alright?
It’s okay.
-But we’ll try to make it work.
-It’s a tricky situation.
So, we got up there...
and we realized that
Jordan was feeling really sick.
He’s not doing well.
I had a sore throat and Jordan’s
had a headache for 2-3 days.
Me too,
but he’s worse than yesterday.
We can’t get
in touch with the insurance...
to get them to send a helicopter.
I’ll send
you everything on WhatsApp.
It’s going by fast, huh?
-Just one more day.
-One more day.
One more day.
This morning when he walked out,
I saw his face and thought,
“He doesn’t look good.”
Things don’t always go as
planned, right?
Unfortunately.
It’s hard to think that I
came here for nothing.
I will come back, Manish.
I don’t know if I
can eat anything,
I’m not hungry anymore...
It’s so annoying...
-So, Jordan has Covid.
-Aw, he’s got Covid?
He has really bad COVID
That means
that we might have Covid.
I think we all have
Covid if he has Covid.
Yeah, we all have Covid,
I guarantee it.
Dammit!
Goddamn Covid...
-Did the helicopter crash?!
-The helicopter crashed.
No!
Holy shit, man!
Shit, bro,
I hope no one in there!
There was
probably someone in there!
The pilot, at the very least.
We got news from the pilot,
the pilot’s okay.
He managed to get out
before it happened. But...
Dude, I’ve never seen a
helicopter crash, you know?
In fact, helicopters up
here don’t get any lift.
When they take off...
since we’re 5000 meters up,
they really
can’t get too far off the ground.
So, they skim the
ground until a lower elevation...
and sometimes they hit the side,
so, you know...
That helicopter could have been
Jordan’s helicopter yesterday.
We’ve entered
a vicious circle of madness.
I’m sick as a dog...
Jordan had to go...
The helicopter crashed...
Man, it sucks.
Jeez, we’re in a real mess.
As soon as I’m better,
we’re going to do this
goddamn summit, bro.
Yeah. Don’t worry, we’ll do it.
We have to!
If we weren’t stuck like this,
we’d have been done by now.
Before getting to the lodge,
I was like, “It’s over.
There’s no way I can do this,
man.
” Now,
I’m determined to do it again.
There has to be a way, bro.
Of course there’s a way.
-Objective reinstated.
-All right...
Okay, so look, it’s...
It’s Saturday the 14th.
What’s the
recovery deadline Mathis?
Don’t go falling asleep
on us now, okay, bro?
They said you shouldn’t
do anything for 3 or 4 days.
But you think we should
head out in 2 days instead?
Yeah!
I won’t be in good shape yet!
It’ll go quickly, in one or
two days you’ll feel better.
No, no, you guys.
Let me rest get
some rest, dude. Bro, come on.
You don’t need rest.
Get up and go.
But my throat’s really on fire!
You’re going to climb it anyway.
Right?
Léo’s such a bastard, man!
-I know.
-I have Covid, but he’s all...
Aw, stop complaining
about your throat, we don’t care.
Stop indulging yourself.
We’re going to put one
foot in front of the other
like we always do,
and we’re going to climb.
Base camp! Here we are, guys.
I can’t wait.
You know I’m really
looking forward to this.
I’ve never been so excited
to climb a fucking mountain.
Welcome back!
Yeah, surprise, surprise,
mother fucker!
I’m back!
Welcome back! Jordan is back!
Dude, how’s Kathmandu?
Did you get some air, or not?
-Yeah, for sure.
-Oh, yeah?
That’s it!
The misfortunes are over.
I’m in a good mood. We’re
going to climb like titans...
This is the final stretch...
We have 2,200 meters to climb...
and nothing can stop me now!
I’m going to the summit for sure.
I’ve got this.
Starting at the base camp,
we’ll head towards Camp 1.
Then, we’ll have to cross to Camp
2, where we’ll spend the night.
We’ll wake up at two in the
morning and head to Camp 3.
Then the last step...
is the summit.
Damn, you guys!
We’re gonna climb the most
beautiful
mountain in the Himalayas,
I don’t know if you realize that.
Ama Dablam.
Let’s see if anyone is awake.
All right, they’re awake!
They’re all awake, you guys!
What’s up?
-Are you good?
-How are you?
-Great.
-You sleep well?
Yeah, I slept well. It’s D-Day!
-D-Day.
-Let’s go!
Let’s do this.
Good luck.
All right.
We’re at Camp 1.
Wow that was tough.
-Yeah, it was really tough!
-This is no joke. Am I right?
It took us...
4 hours, 4 and a half hours.
-4 and half is a lot, huh?
-Yeah.
It’s all in the mind.
But we’re all determined.
And I’m not gonna stop here.
We’re
going to head to Camp 2 next.
-This is some climb.
-Yeah.
It’s steeper
than the Matterhorn.
Yeah.
-Am I good here?
-You’re perfect.
Dorji the
madman has 30 kilos on his back.
-How much do we have, Mathis? 10?
-15 or 20.
-Is the rock holding? Okay.
-Come on.
Look at that drop!
Look at all the clouds.
I’ve never seen so many clouds,
Mathis.
There’s are a lot of clouds.
-Are you Swiss?
-Yeah.
We even meet
subscribers up on Ama Dablam.
-Did you do the summit?
-Yeah!
-And?
-I did it this morning.
I don’t want to scare you,
man...
but when
I saw in your and Mathis’
stories that you were doing this
one, I thought... “Goddamn, bro!”
All the naysayers
who say that Everest
is a cash machine,
that it’s for tourists,
and all that, well...
All the ones you’re
doing before Everest...
are a thousand times harder.
So, they’re worse than it in,
uh, in terms of elevation?
What comes between
Camp 2 and 3 is way harder.
Yeah,
but it’s not as steep, right?
Yes, yeah!
It seems endless,
but at least there’s snow.
Starting at Camp 2, it’s vertical
all the way to the summit.
-So, so, you know...
-How reassuring!
You good, Mathis?
I can’t get any slack!
I’m going crazy.
Yeah, it’s pretty hard.
This is scary, bro!
Come on!
Yes!
-Yes!
-Good job, bro!
Camp 2!
Camp 2, we did it.
What the hell am I doing...
on a goddamn cliff...
with a drop of I don’t know how
many meters, in a suspended tent?
Well, the tent is suspended
there for the time being.
Yeah, the tent is iconic.
The tent is iconic.
With 3 of in there,
I think we’ll be fine.
-Life is beautiful, huh?
-It’s incredible.
It’s really beautiful.
Samy to Inès, can you hear me?
I got to Camp 2, bro.
We’re going to go to sleep soon,
so we’ll eat...
and then sleep.
And how’s your morale?
How’s it
going? How’s your fatigue doing?
It’s okay, bro.
I’m hanging in there.
I can see the summit,
but it’s still pretty far.
It’s been tough, so far.
-It’s tough?
-Yeah.
It’s tough, but...
I’m told the
fatigue will go, that it’ll pass.
We have to hang in there...
and...
we’ll get there.
What does the Air Up bottle say?
Does it work at 6,000 meters?
Yeah, it works great.
There’s hot water.
I hope I can make it to the top,
Jordan.
Of course you will.
You’re at 6000 meters,
you only have 800 left.
You got this.
Actually, it’s just 700 meters.
700...
We’re not giving up, bro.
Yeah...
We’re not giving up.
It’s 2:30.
Two-thirty in the morning...
we’re going
too slowly towards the summit.
-You sleep well, Inès?
-Yeah.
I didn’t. I didn’t sleep a wink.
Same here.
I’ve never been in such bad
shape...
-Yeah.
-when I’ve had to summit.
But, uh...
you have
to keep pushing forward.
If you think and...
and complain,
you won’t make it, so...
you move forward and keep quiet.
I have zero energy,
I don’t get it.
We’re going to Camp 3.
We’re taking a big...
a big pause, a big break.
The sun’s gonna come out,
so things will change a bit.
It’s always
tough at this time...
when night ends... at daybreak.
It’s going like shit.
We’ve
already been gone for 4 hours.
We’re only at Camp 3...
We haven’t even done half of
what we were supposed to do.
We’re sick. It’s covid.
I’ve never seen
anything like that, bro.
We’ve been
doing this since this morning!
We didn’t do all this
for nothing, Mathis.
We have to try to stay lucid.
We can’t overdo it.
There are 500
fucking meters left...
but they’re so steep.
Why are we so worn out?
This is a horrible feeling,
Mathis.
This is so shitty.
It really sucks!
I really wanted to get up there.
Dude,
I can see how slow we’re walking.
There’s no way we’re
going to make it up there.
We don’t
have enough energy or the pace.
It’s so frustrating!
Dammit.
Jordan to Mathis. Any news?
Jordan’s asking for updates.
Mathis to Jordan.
We’re exhausted.
We’ll probably head back down.
Wait, you recorded your
father at the restaurant?
Without him knowing?
I thought to myself,
I have to record this.
Because...
if one day I’m in trouble,
or lacking
motivation, I’ll listen to it.
I’ll play it to myself, and...
it’ll remind me what he said.
-I’m your father.
-But don’t worry.
You’re a man today,
you’re not a kid anymore.
Stop telling me not to worry.
I’ll always worry about you...
All my life.
And your mother feels the same.
Yeah, but I just want to
know if you trust me or not.
You see who you are today
and the journey you’ve taken?
Do you think I have doubts?
Yeah, but when I hear
you talk like that...
It’s my job to do this.
You can’t
imagine what it’s like...
But it’s not
a matter of being lucky or not...
Well, you are!
Everything you’re doing,
we’ve never done.
I’m just telling you
to be very careful.
I’m asking you
to trust your gut.
If you think you’re safe...
or if something’s not right...
just follow your instincts.
All right, guys.
Let’s do this, dammit.
We gonna do this, Mathis.
Okay?
Bro, I didn’t climb
2000 fucking meters...
just to stop here, right?
I mean it.
Even if it’s
a hundred meters at a time.
Inès...
-Yeah?
-can you follow me now?
-Can I follow you?
-Yeah.
-Slowly.
-Okay.
Do you think we can do it,
Dorji?
Yeah.
We’re gonna do it, my friends.
Hey, Mathis!
We’re gonna do it, bro.
We’re gonna get up and do this.
I’m so proud of you.
Every step that you take...
we’ll be with you.
Dorji...
We fucking did it...
I fucking did it...
I did it! Holy shit, I did it!
I finally did it...
Holy shit!
It scares me that I might
not always be able to make it!
You just feel so stressed out,
you know?
You’re scared, you’re...
And when you get there dude,
it just so good, man!
Holy shit... it’s so beautiful.
Thank you, Dorji.
Thank you, my friend.
You good?
We did it together.
And Mathis is coming.
We did it, guys! The summit!
The Summit!
Aw, we did it!
I’m so proud of us, we did it!
We did it!! We did it!!
We did good.
I really
thought we wouldn’t make it.
We didn’t think
we could do it...
But we did.
You should never give up!
We deserve this.
Manish, bro! We did it, brother.
We were so close to giving up.
Down at Camp 3...
I thought it was over.
If it weren’t for him, I wouldn’t
have gotten to the summit.
He pushed us all really hard.
He said to himself,
“No question,
I’m going up, dammit.
I’ve been here for 20 days.
I’m going up this mountain,
not back to Paris.”
Quite frankly,
you’re making me hallucinate.
Honestly...
I wouldn’t have had
the mental strength to continue.
This is our come-back, bro!
-Are you good?
-I’m good!
Everest is behind!
That one is next, Mathis!
That one is next!
-The summit, bro! We did it!
-We did it!
-Yeah! The summit, you guys!
-The summit!
And now back down, the same day.
Oh damn, it’s the Swiss guy!
The Swiss are here!
We weren’t going to miss that.
Well done, dude.
Man, I have the craziest story.
I’ve had hemorrhoids
for two days and
they hurt so bad.
Dude, it’s so bad!
You guys, my butt,
my butt is on fire, bro!
It hurts so bad!
I’m in so much pain,
I don’t know what to do...
I went up Ama Dablam with
hemorrhoids bro!
I’m crazy, bro.
Our faces look really rough.
We look ugly.
I don’t know how we did it.
Every time we climb,
Uh, yeah, but you impressed me.
If it were up to me, I would have
turned around, like...
ten times.
You know, actually...
high altitudes,
high altitudes like that
aren’t my specialty.
It’s not like...
You know, I’m not a Sherpa...
I went to the Himalayas twice
before this trip, but I’m not...
It’s the altitude.
You prefer technical
stuff in the Alps and stuff?
That’s more my specialty.
I’m stronger in that area.
That’s why I realized
that it’s all in the mind.
Physically we thought that we
were dead, but then you realize,
wow, we made it
another 800 meters, bro! It’s...
Yeah.
It’s all part
of climbing high altitudes, dude.
You accept
that you’ll get hurt and suffer.
Those 290 meters...
they really hurt.
Next up is a bigger one where
we’re going to suffer even more.
Yeah.
Maybe not in terms steepness,
but in terms of oxygen.
Yeah!
Five...
Four...
Three...
Two...
One...
Hey, everyone!
Hey, you guys! Hey, you guys!
Hey, you guys!
So today, there’s a new video!
A new video... A new video...
After a
month away from YouTube...
I desperately need to catch up.
-Hello!
-How are you?
Inoxtag is here with us!
Let’s go!
Who will be the last survivor?
Hurry!
You’re
controlling 4 vehicles each.
We’re in the backrooms,
and the aim is to escape!
We’ll continue
with Michou’s live.
Inox is on the stream!
-How are you doing, Inox?
-I’m doing awesome!
It’s after 2 am...
And tomorrow, I film at 9am.
It's here!
You know, I have a confession.
Inès isn’t here, but...
I think he’s doing too much.
I’m feeling like a worried dad!
All those livestreams...
-I’m afraid for him!
-I agree with you.
When Inès
got back from Ama Dablam,
he was totally burned out,
totally exhausted.
His nerves are fried,
and he’s fatigued.
His head and his body are messed
up. He’s also lost 8 kilos.
I’ve lost all of my muscles.
Dude, I’m all skinny.
You know, if I shave,
I’ll look like “Inès 2013.”
First of all, what he needs
is to get back in good shape,
physically.
Is everyone here?
For me, it’s Subway Surfer.
-I’m trying to hold on.
-Inox.
You have to come with me.
I’m tired so exhausted, bro!
I’m tired!
Guys, I’m really dead, I’m not
going to last, there’s no way.
As soon as you finish something,
bam! You’re onto the next one!
It sucks, bro.
There’s no way I can last
another 30 minutes on a live.
I’m too tired, bro.
I’m burned out! You know?
I’m just so overwhelmed.
I’m so overwhelmed.
I said yes to too many things!
And now I’m committed to them.
We can adjust the ideas,
and the model,
and the operation,
but only you...
can make the final call,
you know?
It’s just that...
you know, I, I look like a
spoiled brat, and I hate that.
Yeah, but still...
I mean, look, I’m making
a cool video, you know?
And... yet, I think,
damn I have too much to do.
Okay, but you have the right to
not be
happy about what you’re doing.
Yeah, but there are
people out there who, uh...
break their balls getting up at 6
and going to bed at 8,
and I’m here...
just here...
complaining because I have a live
during the
night and a shoot during the day!
I’m acting spoiled, dude.
You’re telling yourself
that because you, uh...
You know, I think I’m scared...
of becoming a slacker, I guess.
Because right now,
I’m doing things that are more...
more thrilling than I’ve ever
done before, and yet look at me!
A video where
I’m in my car around the clock?
I used to have fun!
But enough is enough,
I’ve been there done that, uh...
I just want
to think about Everest!
If this experience...
hadn’t changed me...
mentally...
I would have reached the top,
and like the other projects,
I would’ve said
“Okay, I made it, now what?”
It’s the worst failure.
For sure, I’m a new man.
You can compare, uh...
the Inès from the beginning...
when the project was announced...
to the one at the end,
and they’re two different guys.
Whether it’s because of
me or because of others...
If I don’t change, it’ll just be
one more project to add to...
the catalog,
and what’s the real takeaway?
At the moment, he’s doing
too much at the same time.
Between his life as a
YouTuber and as an athlete...
It was making me dizzy!
So, I called him, and I said...
“You have to make a choice.
You can’t do
everything at the same intensity
all at once and
hope to have it all.
Either you focus
on yourself and your preparation,
or you focus on your projects.”
I’m sending a voice
message just to make it quick.
I don’t know what’s going on,
but...
it’s really starting
to get out of hand.
This isn’t the time to be stupid.
You’re sabotaging all the
hard work we’ve done this year.
It’s time for you to refocus.
To put everything into
this project and do it right.
Even if it’s hard,
or you’re having problems
with I don’t know what,
it’s no excuse.
So, what I’m asking you to do...
is to eliminate
everything except your workouts.
That’s your only priority,
your workouts.
That’s your job right now.
It’s time to wake up.
It’s not possible.
It hasn’t been a year already,
time hasn’t gone by that fast.
The 6 months between
Ama Dablam and this moment...
it couldn’t have
gone by that fast!
Here we go, guys.
You know, time is so insane!
-One year.
Climbing Everest
is already tough...
but the
challenge had to be even tougher!
Instead of taking my phone,
I’ll leave it at the studio.
No one in the studio believes me.
-You’re really leaving it?
-Look, my cell phone...
I’m leaving it.
You’re not taking a phone?
I’m not taking it. It’s okay!
Total disconnection.
I’ll focus on the objective!
Take it and turn it off.
No! Stop telling me to take it!
I’m leaving it!
Mathis didn’t believe me,
he said I wouldn’t do it...
and that it’s just
for the cameras...
I don’t have my
phone and it’s weird!
I just tried
to take it out of my pocket.
I already reached for it!
But there was only my passport!
Well, say bye to the studio!
The time has come.
Man, it’s so crazy! One year.
It’s the big day.
Bro, here we go!
And so, we’re off for a
ten-day trek to acclimatize.
I’m not feeling great.
Dammit, I’m getting sick again...
But it’s normal,
it’s the altitude.
We’re getting acclimated,
so it’ll pass.
I know my body.
Just give me...
24 hours.
I could have all the diseases in
the world...
and I’d still go up.
Mathis!
Yeah, bro?
Base camp’s in sight!
It’s like a city!
Yeah, I guess. It’s not bad...
it’s not that big.
I think it’s huge!
-Base camp.
-Base camp, yep.
I promised,
I said no matter what...
I’ll see you
in 2024 at the foot of Everest.
Promise kept.
You did it, it’s awesome.
-You never gave up. One year.
-One year, we never gave up.
One year, dude.
You never gave up no matter what.
Do you regret it?
Not for a second.
It’s the best decision ever.
Dude, I feel so good, I’m happy.
Thanks for coming with me,
Mathis.
You’re welcome, bro.
It was a pleasure. We go this.
Dude! Our camp is awesome!
I’m so happy!
We’re finally here!
Ila Nuru!
Sunglasses on the summit, bro!
-Hey, Manish! Ah! Are you good?!
-I’m good!
Come on, bro!
Good job!
We’re not acclimatized just yet.
-Manish?
-Yo.
Are you a fan of basketball?
Yeah! I’m, I’m a huge fan,
and I, I used to play a lot.
Were you on a team?
Yeah... I represented Nepal
in 2011...
in Rimini, Italy.
-Dude, he’s an ex-pro.
-He’s the real deal.
Yeah,
it’s a tribute to Kobe Bryant.
For the summit,
he drew Kobe Bryant on his boots.
The guy is ready to go.
Let’s do it for Kobe.
I have a surprise for him, but he
doesn’t know yet.
It’s a surprise.
Manish...
what’s your life’s dream, bro?
Right now,
the dream is to be at the top...
of Sagarmatha, of Everest.
-We have the same dream, brother.
-Yeah.Let’s do it.
I made a promise to Manish,
because he wanted to summit
Everest last year but couldn’t.
He had to stop at Camp 4,
because his
client didn’t have enough oxygen
for him to climb
up to the summit.
He told him, “Stay at Camp 4,
you can’t summit.”
I promised him
that he will climb up with us.
The whole team will...
They’ll all climb with us.
Let’s go!
There will be enough
for everyone to summit.
We have Sunam here. He’ll be
coming on the expedition with us.
You’re from Longtang Valley?
The earthquake was in 2015?
His whole village...
his house totally
collapsed, everything collapsed.
Your whole house?
He stopped
working for a while to...
help his family and...
to rebuild their house.
When I was taking the guide exam,
we did an exchange
with some Nepalese...
He was gonna go.
and Sunam
was supposed to come with us,
but he couldn’t because
he had to help his family
rebuild their house and village.
Damn, man.
It was important
to build the house
and keep my family safe.
And after,
I can do the courses.
We’re
happy to work with the team...
because you guys are...
a lot better than
normal novice clients.
There are some clients who don’t
even know how to put on crampons.
Damn.
There’s was even somebody
where we
had to put his boots on as well!
-What? I don’t believe you.
-It’s true! Right, Manish?
And sometimes, like,
a guy needs to pee,
and he says, “Oh,
my hands are so numb!
I can’t even pee.”
And we have to go and open...
No! No, I don’t buy it!
I don’t buy it...
-No way, really?
-It’s true.
The client was an old man,
so we said...
okay, okay. Come on.
He had to hold his penis
so he could pee.
Bro, that’s so disgusting.
So, I guess...
we’re considered a level up.
Tendi!
Pathan!
Milan!
Sama!
On an expedition like this,
we can’t carry
everything ourselves.
So, these Nepalese porters
helped us to the base camp.
And then, they come back down,
they’re done.
So, uh...
if we reach the summit,
it’s partly
thanks to them because they’re...
they’re machines.
You are the best, bro!
In the comments...
Power to them, brothers!
They’re
the real Gs of the Himalayas!
Heads up!
Do you think
we’ll reach the top of Everest?
No.
Whoa, Inès! He’s just a
little kid. We’re gonna...
we’re gonna do this.
It looks impossible.
It’s not possible
to climb up there.
It’s too big!
Climbing Everest
is a whole other level compared
to what I’ve done so far.
We’ll have to go
through four camps...
with big
challenges at each stage.
We’ll start with the Icefall,
one of the most
dangerous passages of the climb.
We’re crossing a glacier
with crevasses and huge seracs
that can give way at any moment.
After Camp 1,
we’ll go around huge crevasses
and cross the Western Cwm...
a valley exposed to the sun where
temperatures can
rise dangerously.
After Camp 2,
we’ll have to face the steep
slope of
Lhotse to reach Camp 3...
and then Camp 4.
That will be when we
enter the death zone.
Beyond that attitude,
we’ll start to die.
It’s in these extreme conditions
that we must attempt the
final ascent to Everest’s summit.
On a dizzying ridge with
miles of emptiness on each side.
Prepare your mind for...
Everest.
I don’t have that thing where
I tell myself I’m confident.
I don’t have that thing where...
Well... you have to...
have confidence, and...
continue to focus on the prep
and all that.
It’ll all work out.
Louis...
will be filming with Manish.
He did Everest last year...
therefore,
his advice is precious to us.
How long
from South Col to the summit?
About 10 hours.
-That’s a lot. I mean...
-For real, that’s a lot.
It’s up the Matterhorn and back.
Camp 4 to the summit...
is just as far.
We’ll stay
at the base camp for a month...
so we can acclimatize.
And then,
we’ll wait for the right moment
when the weather is
good so we can climb.
It only happens once a year,
so we can’t afford to miss it.
Well...
I’ll show you where
we’re going live for a month.
Welcome to base camp!
It’s a mini city,
just below Everest,
at 5200 meters,
and it’s really grown
over the last 50 years.
There are a lot of problems, like
with pollution,
and overpopulation...
For now,
the base camp seems clean.
But I think that up there...
It’ll be worse,
and we’re going to go through it.
But as Mathis taught me,
you have to leave the mountain
as it was before you arrived.
So, we’ll bring our
waste back down...
so we don’t leave
anything on the mountain.
And in the meantime...
we’ll wait at our camp.
Welcome to my home!
Home, home, home!
Well, this is my room
here at the base camp!
This is where I sleep every night
with a beautiful
duvet in minus 40,
and I have a duvet in it
to stay nice and warm.
-Wait, let me clean this up.
-No wait, that’s pee.
That’s disgusting!
It’s my pee.
I managed
to do a liter in one night!
That’s my record
since getting here.
At night when you get up to pee,
because you have
to stay hydrated...
you can’t be bothered to
go outside, it’s way too cold...
so you grab a bottle,
and And done!
You know what I mean?
I have to empty
it. So, you touched my pee, man.
That’s disgusting.
My Air Up
is always ready to drink,
you have
to hydrate at high altitudes.
So here, I have my toiletry bag,
this my mouthwash and my
toothbrush,
and my skincare routine.
I didn’t do that in Paris.
I put on this moisturizing
cream from Herborian,
because the sun
here is really strong.
If you put this on your face...
you’ll do to the summit.
Sure!
Summit...
Summit! Nice!
Nice!
Well, you must be wondering
how I go to the toilet...
because at night,
I pee in my bottle...
but...
what about daytime?
Anyone there?
This is the throne! You poop...
it falls into a blue canister...
and as soon as it’s full,
they close it up,
and they take it to the valley,
and they put the poop...
at the base of the mountain.
Hey Mathis!
Ah! Jeez, dude!
I’m trying to tidy up a bit...
-because it’s kind of a mess.
-Oh yeah. Good luck, bro!
I’m out of breath now.
Bro! I’m out of breath.
He should have
been training too.
Goddamn! He’s
the director of the documentary.
Without any training...
he came to the base camp to film.
Hey, look who’s there.
Look who’s here.
Oh my god!
Oh, his feet! His feet! Oh,
my god!
What is this music, bro?
Manish, I’m not acclimatized yet.
I have no more energy,
and speaking of energy,
over there is the kitchen.
The cook has been
treating us for a few days,
so it’s our turn to treat him!
French cheese!
You want to try it?
Okay!
-Okay, let’s go!
-Yeah.
Petite Tomme de Savois.
It’s my favorite cheese!
This cheese made
it here all the way from France!
Goddamn.
No way!
It’s not normally like that!
-That really stinks!
-For real, dude!
Ah! I’m going to throw up, bro!
Oh! But I’m gonna still try it!
Wait, hold on!
Okay, you guys...
it got a little warm, but...
it doesn’t look too bad.
Oh, man...
Oh my god! This is absolutely
amazing!
Is it good or not?
Yeah, it’s good, good!
Yeah! It’s good!
Oh my god! That’s France!
-You like it?
-It’s good.
Is it good or not?
Yes, yes! It’s good!
I’m on fire!
We can discuss
which day is best to summit.
I pray to
god that we will be successful
and without injuries or problems.
So, we...
will try to summit
maybe like...
uh, the 18th?
Oh, but that’s 3 days away!
The weather will be very good.
If you think the
weather will be good...
then for me, it’s not a problem.
Tonight, all
our Sherpas are going to, uh...
-To drop off... the oxygen.
-Oxygen, yeah.
What do you think about the...
traffic?
I think there will be...
less traffic.
-Okay.
Is the plan okay?
Yeah.
I’m starting to get scared.
Good?
Thank you, Sonam,
thanks to the team.
It’s good man, the
moment we’ve been waiting for!
-One year!
-One year.
Now it’s down to 3 days, man!
I’m going to call
the weather router
and say that the
Sherpas are saying...
the 18th.
What do you think? Because I
have the impression that it’s...
I don’t know if it’s a good
idea to leave on the 18th.
The 18th has
a beautiful morning then snow...
From afternoon to evening,
there’s wind...
wind and fog at all altitudes.
I’m not climbing
Everest for nothing, man, right?
If you’re all the way up there,
you want a nice view!
The only other thing
that’s important is the wind.
As for the fog...
They’re saying fog, but I
want to go up to enjoy the view.
I’m more afraid of the traffic,
you know?
Man, that’s my phobia as well.
Well, it’s coming up fast,
and I don’t want...
to be the voice that’s...
pessimistic and all that, but...
I don’t
want to be in a traffic jam.
He doesn’t want anything.
He doesn’t want fog,
or wind, or...
Going to Everest is a
once in a lifetime thing!
I’m not going to the top of
Everest if I can’t see anything.
You shouldn’t place
too many constraints,
or you’ll never go up!
You shouldn’t think, “Oh,
there will be people, oh,
there’s going to be wind, oh,
there’s going to be fog,
oh, there’s going to be...
Otherwise, you’ll...
you’ll go in three years!
I don’t have enough experience
to say what we should do.
I’m placing my
trust in the team.
There are 400 of
us in the camp...
waiting for a
window so we can finally go up...
That’s how the
traffic jams happen,
just like the photos,
just like...
everything we’ve seen on social
media,
with the really long lines...
There’s a window of
4-5 days without wind...
So, all the climbers are
going to choose that slot.
That’s why we’re
a bit apprehensive
to find
ourselves stuck in traffic.
I admit,
I have a knot in my stomach.
We’re going to need
that for the end of the climb,
because up there,
there isn’t much
oxygen in the air.
Dude,
this will be our life saver.
-For sure.
-Dude, this is so crazy!
We need to test the oxygen
mask to be sure everything works.
So,
am I breathing the oxygen now?
-No, it’s not on yet.
-Ah!
It’s good.
What the fuck?
Is there
oxygen going through there?
-Oh, yeah.
-But I can feel it in my stomach!
Like you’re hungry?
Yeah! What the fuck, man?!
But dude,
you feel it right away!
Do you see the
energy it gave me?!
Well, I’ve never tried it,
so I don’t know...
Then wait, try it, try it!
You’ll be shocked!
Don’t you feel like
you’re breathing easily?
No, it’s not giving me chills.
-But don’t you feel good now?
-It makes you feel good.
-Oh yeah, so much better!
It makes a major difference!
Damn it’s heavy.
But dude, having this on
your back for the whole climb...
It would last 5 hours.
Having oxygen is a major asset.
Some come without it,
and they should be
congratulated because man,
doing
Everest without oxygen is a feat.
Without oxygen is a hundred times
harder.
For real, a hundred times harder.
Whoa, dude!
I thought it was a helicopter!
Not a helicopter, an avalanche!
Looked at that, it’s huge!
But man, the
avalanche isn’t that far from us!
Damn there’s more.
It’s moving.
The seracs are breaking.
We just have to be sure not to
be under one when we go up.
It’s better
it falls all day today...
so tomorrow will be okay!
Mathis gave me this mask.
When it gets really cold,
your throat might burn with
the air at minus 30 degrees.
If you use the mask,
it allows you
to keep the humidity
and the heat in your mouth.
I don’t want to hurt my throat,
so I’ll go
to Everest Camp 2 with this.
Tomorrow...
That’s right...
Damn, man...
Dude, I’m a little scared.
I admit that...
since we’re hearing
blocks fall day and night...
it’s a little stressful, but...
it’ll be fine, I know it will.
Hey old man! How are you doing?
Bro, I miss you! So...
Yeah, long time no see,
right, bro?
Have you done any research yet?
Man, I left my phone in Paris
a month and a half ago, dude.
Mathis gave me his
phone so I could call you
The best thing
is for you to stay disconnected
and just focus on Everest.
I’m going tomorrow, bro!
Oh, that’s crazy!
How long will it take?
4 days. It’s tomorrow man!
It’s, it’s tomorrow!
Bro, give
it your all and you’ll make it.
What you’re doing right now is
crazy. Enjoy yourself.
Aw, man I...
Shonen Spirit all the way.
Remember,
your strength is in your mind.
Inès did really well.
We’ve
been training for a whole year,
and he really put his all
into training and into preparing
for this project.
A year of preparation
may seem pretty short,
but Inès was so dedicated,
and he was super disciplined.
He gave it his all for 360 days.
It was all he thought about,
whether he
was eating or he was training...
That’s the same as
5-6 years of preparation.
And today he’s at the top.
You know, I’m so happy.
Dude...
it’s a year
of work for four days of...
of mountain climbing.
He knows how to climb well,
he’s comfortable with the
equipment,
he knows how to attach,
he knows how to climb the rope...
That guarantees
safety and speed as well.
I’m so stressed, man.
I admit that my stomach
gets in a knot before a climb.
It’ll be fine.
I hope it’ll be fine.
Staying safe is the real goal...
and getting back alive.
You’re crazy to follow me here...
because I like to take risks.
Yeah, you take risks,
the mountains are always a risk.
It’s a lot of factors combined,
which is why
the experience you’ve acquired...
Well,
it’s time to put it to the test.
Inès had an impact on me.
His way of being, his energy...
Honestly, he’s super inspiring.
We did it, brother!
We’ve both grown
with this project, and...
I’m so happy to be
with you today and do the summit.
Before we start climbing,
I’d like to thank everyone...
who supported me
throughout the project,
everyone who encouraged me,
because every day I heard,
“Good luck with Everest.”
I’ve been hearing that
for a year, so thank you.
-Good luck with Everest.
-Thank you.
-To the summit!
-For sure!
Even that guy’s encouraging me.
Before going up,
I want to thank you and everyone.
My whole team who
believes in me and the project.
Thanks also to the criticizers.
It allowed me to
question myself...
about many things...
and become even better.
So,
Sunday at 6am you’ll be up there?
Yeah... I should be.
-Well, be careful, okay, son?
-Yeah.
Remember,
I’m here to push you up,
and I’m here to hold you down.
In case, uh...
something happens...
just know that...
I had the best life ever.
How are you?
-And you?
-Yeah,
-I have good news.
-You okay?
-Yeah?
I’m leaving tonight.
-Oh, it’s time! Tonight?
-It is. It’s the big night.
Oh, that’s great!
-My goodness.
-So, anyway...
I wanted to tell
you before I left.
That’s wonderful, sweetheart.
I’ll be rooting for you.
Now, it’s gonna be...
Actually, I don’t know
if it’s going to be hard,
I don’t if it’s...
I have no idea.
-I honestly have no idea.
-But that’s good!
You know, you shouldn’t
feel apprehensive prematurely,
just take things as they come.
Don’t try to figure out
what you’re going to be feeling!
You’ll feel what you need to
feel when the time comes, okay?
Go forward, and observe,
and listen, and breathe calmly...
Think of me on the 19th...
I’ll be suffering.
I think of you every day.
Every single day.
Big kiss, Mom.
All right, let’s do this.
It’s time to get going.
It’s finally time...
No matter what happens...
no regrets, man.
No regrets.
The Icefall.
This is one of the most
dangerous stages of the climb.
An unstable glacier that
moves one meter per day.
With huge blocks of ice
that can collapse at any moment.
We’re going to have to
cross it all today in order
to reach the first camp
where we’ll be sleeping tonight.
Look at that, bro!
It’s like a building!
If that falls on your face,
it’s over!
When you go under it...
you can’t hang around!
Expose yourself
the least possible.
Go ahead,
we won’t stay too long.
From this point on,
we’re going to start
hanging on to the fixed rope,
because there are
some really big holes.
Holy shit!
Dude, that’s 30 meters!
Dude why is the drop so crazy?!
Oh my god!
Come here... give me your hand.
Oh my god, oh my god!
That was so terrifying, bro!
You have to put
your toes forward.
Okay.
So, toes forward.
Point your toes forward.
Like this, okay?
Nice, Sonam!
Nice, brother!
This passage has
quite a few ladders!
Use the front spikes...
Okay, front spikes...
Look at the people.
Wait, where?
Where are the people?
What?! What the hell?!
It’s mind-blowing.
I didn’t think it would be
like this. I’m in total shock!
Dude,
at the top it must be insane!
I sure hope not.
It’s like what we saw on
the internet right, Mathis?
Now we’re living it.
It’s because
this passage is quite technical.
You really have to pull a lot...
so it takes a time,
and that’s why...
it’s backed up.
We’re going
to have to wait...
-a good hour.
-Holy shit, man.
At least we’re towards the front.
It could be worse.
It must be even worse behind us!
Oh my god, man!
Oh my god!
But dude, what the hell is this!
-It’s hell.
-It’s insane!
It’s like the
beginning of a horror movie!
Or a movie where
the world is ending!
It’s hell on Earth.
There’s a serac right above us.
If it falls, we’re done for.
-Yeah. Don’t worry, I saw it.
-Oh my god, you guys...
I’d rather not look at it either!
Especially since there’s
a crevasse that could form
at any moment under Sonam’s feet,
man!
Mathis is stunned.
I’ve only been
mountaineering for a year,
but Mathis is a pro,
and he’s in shock right now.
If the guys were prepared...
if they had the skills...
Yeah!
-it’d go by quick!
-They’d be quicker.
Yeah!
But they don’t even know how
to attach themselves to the rope.
No, these
guys don’t know how to climb.
They don’t know how
to put the jumar on or anything,
so it’s taking forever.
That’s the problem.
It’s not the number of people.
Dude, how long have
we been waiting under that serac?
We’ve been under
it for an hour now,
and it could fall at any moment!
Exactly. Well, if it does breaks,
it’ll make a nice hole.
Sonam,
is it the first time like this?
-No? It’s always like this?
-Always.
I got us into a mess,
I’m sorry bro.
Yeah, well...
Maybe we were in
too much of a hurry.
You think we’ll
make it to Camp 2?
I hope so.
Yeah, me too.
But there are so many people...
I’m telling you...
I don’t wanna lose any fingers,
and I don’t wanna die.
Me neither.
We’ve been walking for 6 hours.
We’re finally at Camp 1.
Camp 1!
The first step is done.
So, I’m...
at Camp 1.
Three more to go.
Are you tired?
I wanna go to sleep.
Did you tap into
the reserves yet?
No, not yet,
but I do wanna sleep.
So, we’re here...
we’ve set up the tent.
And now...
we’re inflating these, so...
There’s not much oxygen, but...
Look there.
That’s the top of Everest.
I’m inflating my mattress...
with a view of the top of
Everest. It’s so beautiful.
Honestly, Camp 1 isn’t
great in terms of security.
Yeah.
Especially since...
Dude,
where are we the on the snow?
Well, we’re on huge holes.
So,
we’re on these huge holes man!
I’ve never seen holes like that.
At any moment...
a hole could open up!
Dude, they’re actually canyons.
Bro, they’re canyons!
Tomorrow we’re going to Camp 2.
It should take us a less time.
To get to Camp 2? 2 or 3 hours.
I was woken
up by the storm outside.
I didn’t sleep at all.
This is a real mess!
Mathis told me that
Manish is seriously ill.
Manish!
-Yeah!
-Are you good?
How are you doing, brother?
I’m vomiting.
But that’s normal for me.
-What are you gonna do?
-I’m gonna take some medicine.
So, are you coming with us,
or are you turning back?
-I’m going with you.
-Are you sure?
Yeah.
If you need to recover...
go back, man. It’s okay.
Let’s go to Camp 2.
Time for Camp 2.
It’s not easy.
Yeah, bro!
Dude, it’s...
Goddamn...
It took it out of us today,
for real.
And if we
can’t recover at 6500 meters...
Yeah, mentally it’s...
Damn,
and it’s only the beginning...
Mentally, this is torture.
I’ve already suffered so much,
and we just started.
It’s a slap in the face.
Once you get over 6000,
you realize what it’s like.
It’s honestly
like you’re on another planet.
This place
wasn’t made for humans, man.
How is Manish?
He has...
altitude sickness,
right now. He keeps vomiting.
Is he on oxygen?
-How’s his oxygen?
-Yeah, I gave him oxygen.
Hey, brother.
You’ll get back on your feet.
Yeah.
-Okay?
-Yes.
Get well!
-Get well, brother!
-Yes, brother.
-I’m sure you’ll get better.
-Yeah, yeah.
I hope so.
Manish isn’t well. We’re
gonna stay here another day.
Tomorrow morning,
if his body is okay and fine...
then we’ll take off. If not...
-No summit?
-Yeah, no summit.
Damn, that’s so annoying.
If he’s really sick...
-we can’t risk it.
-Yeah.
But I wanted to do
the summit with him.
I’m so, so tired.
Let’s hope tomorrow is better.
But it’s crazy because...
I don’t know if I can make it.
It’s so far away, that...
I keep thinking...
of how much needs to be done...
Can I really do this?
Especially after
today’s reality check.
It’s not easy, it’s not easy.
This isn’t the place for us...
We’re here at 6400 meters...
and everything yet to come
is even worse.
I’m scared man.
-Guys, I think we have a problem.
-What?
The weather has changed.
And uh...
basically, for the 20th...
it was still good.
But now, on the 20th,
they’re saying...
-It’s bad.
-It’ll be windy.
-Bro...
-That’s why, uh...
they’re doing the 19th.
Do we go up then? Now?
Man, that’s not even an option.
Bro, given the number of people
there are, I’d rather stay here.
Look, you guys, I’m telling...
the traffic up there is
almost more dangerous...
than the wind. I think going now
would be a mistake.
What do you think?
You want to go now?
So, we decided,
that with
everything that’s going on...
the 20th is the best.
So, we’ll follow that plan.
I agree.
But are you sure the traffic...
19, 20, 21, 22, 23.
It will all be the same.
All right?
I here...
in Camp 2 after a shitty night.
Bring on the sun.
We’re waiting
for the sun to hit the tent,
because there’s only
been a windstorm since yesterday.
Once the sun is out,
my mood will get better.
-It was pretty noisy last night.
-Yeah, it was.
At one point...
The wind...
There’s a crazy
windstorm happening at Camp 2.
Last night, uh...
about ten tents were blown away.
Below us, at the lower camps.
We were lucky, but we slept badly
because it was
pounding all night.
As we’ve
said since the beginning,
the weather is always a factor...
It can affect the,
uh, the outcome.
It can cause the journey to fail,
and it can...
have an impact on our expedition.
So, when...
the weather is nicer,
we’ll go to the summit.
For now, we’re
thinking about what to do here.
Right now,
we could be at our homes...
with our own fucking beds
and a hot shower.
Oh, my god!
Yeah, it’s true...
you start
feeling stupid for being here.
We’re two idiots in a tent.
Two idiots in a tent.
And what has the morning
brought us?! How are you, Manish?
-I’m doing good!
-The comeback is...
The comeback is real.
It’s real, bro! Right?
I told you! The comeback is real!
Yeah.
My bro. Manish is making
his comeback! Your comeback!
-I’m back!
-You’re back!
Hey, Manish?
Last night you sure
weren’t like that, huh?
You were like...
“Good night, bro!”
How are you, Charles?
Charles is also climbing Everest,
and he joined us.
A little before 11am...
uh, this morning...
at the top of the climb...
of the mountain...
my stomach got so bloated...
I was sure I was going
to shit my pants, man!
I took five steps...
and then rested for ten seconds.
Then I took five steps,
and I almost shit myself.
Dude...
So, you managed not to shit
even though you had diarrhea?
I got here,
and the guy served me a tea...
I drink the tea.
I finish the tea, man,
and leave the tent...
Man, I said to him:
“Emergency!
I need a toilet!
I need a toilet!”
Quick, it’s a toilet emergency!
Man, so they point out the little
tent they set up for the toilet.
That’s the toilet?
That’s just for pee, right?
Man...
I went in there, dude.
So, I’m squatting, and my
pants are around my knees, dude.
You know, I’m, I’m like this...
and it’s not enough, I’m not
close enough to the toilet, man!
So, he pooped on the rock!
He actually pooped on the rock!
It was really coming out, man.
-Did you shit on yourself?
-It was a bomb, man.
The tent...
It was covered in shit!
Man, I ruined that tent.
The tent was... The guys...
they...
they just finished setting it up!
And I get to the base camp...
They just finished setting it up!
They put the ropes...
And I ruined that tent.
5 minutes after it was set up.
Oh, that’s good!
Man...
so after that...
what could I do?
I was in there for an hour, man.
I had to clean everything up.
No, that story is too crazy.
I can imagine him in there
cleaning up his shit.
Man, he set off a bomb!
A bomb in the toilet, my god.
Man, this guy is too much...
He’s too much.
That’s it, the wind has
died down, so we can go.
That’s the oxygen tank.
We’re not gonna use it now,
but we will later.
The tank is all set. Ready?
We’ll be covering 700 meters of
elevation
to get to get to Camp 3.
Camp 3, tomorrow morning.
Camp 4, tomorrow evening.
Then the summit!
Tomorrow evening,
we’re doing the summit, man!
Summit time, bro.
Man!
I can’t even believe it, huh?
It’s tomorrow!
-The summit! Tomorrow night!
-The summit! Summit!
Now I’m thinking I can do Camp 3.
After that, who knows!a
But we’ll find out!
In any case,
we won’t be breaking at Camp 3!
If you’re not okay at Camp 3,
man...
it’s too bad. Once you get to
Camp 3, there’s no turning back.
It’s not gonna be easy...
but that’s why I’m here.
That’s exactly why I’m here.
-It’s our turn to play now.
-No more excuses.
We’re not slowing down anymore.
This is the final stretch.
I got butterflies in my stomach.
There’s
some serious wind up there!
Here we go!
We’re climbing Everest.
This is just the beginning!
And... it’s already hard.
Go slowly...
and we’ll make the summit.
If we run like a rabbit,
then no summit.
-No summit. Be a turtle.
-Yeah.
I’m trying not
to think about the difficulty.
Each step
brings me closer to the goal.
An avalanche!
It’s okay on our side,
we’re safe.
There’s a
traffic jam to get to Camp 3.
We’re going to put on the
oxygen so we can speed up.
We have to hurry,
because in the afternoon,
the weather will be bad.
Okay! Oxygen on!
Now I feel it, man.
Well, from now on...
I’ll be wearing
my oxygen...
for the 48 hours.
Holy shit!
This stuff is so crazy!
Don’t get too close,
it’s really deep.
Take a real big jump.
Camp 3!
The good news is,
that we’re at Camp 3.
The bad news is,
that we’re only at 7000 meters.
Goddamn.
We can officially say that
this is our highest altitude.
We passed the 7000-mark, bro.
We’re at 7000!
Our next step is 8000...
and after that, is the summit.
I don’t even know how I got here.
I...
I don’t know.
Last night, there were
clouds at the summit...
and there was a lot
of wind at Camp 4.
A lot of people turned back,
so we hope that tomorrow...
that won’t be our case.
The problem is that now,
more people will be
climbing tomorrow...
because so many people turned
back today and will try again.
So, I guess...
we’ll see what happens.
Are you good?
How are you, man?
-I’m tired.
-But we’re here!
Holy shit, we are, bro!
We’ve been wearing oxygen and
waiting...
and now, we’re here.
This entire year...
has been
in anticipation of two days...
Tomorrow and the day after
tomorrow.
Now, I’m getting scared.
We’re waking up at camp 3.
It’s the big wakeup call!
It’s pretty windy right now.
It’s gonna
be a long walk to Camp 4.
We can rest a little
bit once we’re there,
and then head to the summit.
What’s going on?
2 oxygen tanks have disappeared.
Wait, where are the tanks? They
stole them from us? At Camp 3?
Yeah, yes, during the night.
We had 2 oxygen tanks stolen!
They stole two of our tanks?!
Yeah, two tanks.
Some people really are bastards,
bro!
It must have been the
people who turned back yesterday.
They want to try
the summit again...
except they didn’t have enough
tanks.
And so, they stole ours.
That’s so crazy! An oxygen
tank
is your safety net up there.
You can’t steal
oxygen from others!
At this altitude,
you need it to survive!
A human being shouldn’t do that
to another! It’s totally immoral.
Well, fortunately,
we have some emergency tanks.
But the thing is that...
we have to hope all goes well,
because now we have no backups.
All right,
let’s hope all goes well.
What just happened, Mathis?
The guy
in front of me just fell down!
Can you stand up?
Come on, bro! Stand up!
Come on, stand up!
Thank you, bro.
You’re out of oxygen.
You’re out of oxygen!
-No more oxygen?
-No.
-My tank is empty?
-Yes.
-Ah. Okay.
-You can see right here.
Don’t you have a Sherpa?
Where’s your Sherpa?
What’s wrong with him?
They found him up there,
and the Sherpas are going
to take him down to an
emergency helicopter.
Dude,
what a horrible thing to witness.
-It really hurts my heart.
-Yeah, but...
I can’t look.
We’re
entering the death zone now.
It’s the home stretch
for climbing Everest.
I can do this.
I’m doing this for all the people
who said it wasn’t possible.
To show people...
you have to believe in them.
I’m gonna make it.
Small step by small step...
I’ll get there.
Slowly but
surely, I’ll get to the top.
I’m going to suffer!
But we’re going to do it!
I’m not gonna give up!
Let’s go!
Camp 4!
We did it, man.
We made it to Camp 4.
You know
what’s in store for us now...
Goddamn! I’m so happy man!
Damn, we’re here, man!
I’ve never been so
ready for anything!
We’ll be up there
in about 10 hours. 10 hours!
We’re gonna crush it, man!
We’re gonna crush it!
Ila!
-Ah! Congratulations, man!
-We did Ama Dablam...
And now Everest!
Manish! Hey, brother,
we’ve almost done it!
My bro! This year,
you finally did it, bro!
-This year, you finally did it!
-No, we did it! You and me...
We did it!
Manish doesn’t know yet,
but if we make it to the top,
I have a gift for him.
As you can see...
there’s some debris from
the tents...
It’s not very clean.
There’s trash everywhere...
absolutely everywhere!
There’s food...
freeze dried food...
and a lot of old tents.
When it comes to littering...
it’s so extreme up here, and...
the weather changes so
quickly at high altitudes,
that they can’t go back up.
The tents that get caught by
the wind stay where they land.
And it’s gonna create a mess,
but it’s not intentional.
And then,
there are always the people
who throw their
food on the ground.
Yeah, it’s true!
But it’ll start to get better
because there’s pressure
to keep the mountain clean.
Unfortunately, there was
another team who just left...
and their tent was here
and look at what they left.
They didn’t pick up any trash...
or take anything down...
so, it’s
going to stay on the mountain.
It’s a real shame.
It’s bad manners.
Whether it’s at camp 4, or...
or in Paris, uh...
you throw away your trash...
you don’t leave it on the ground.
That’s the most beautiful
sunset I’ve ever seen.
Goddamn...
We’re so small, man.
We’re so small in this world.
The summit is over there.
I’m gonna
make my dream come true.
I’m this close...
to making my dream come true.
The feeling of
saying to yourself...
that you might get there...
that you’re two or three steps
away...
that feeling is amazing.
I thought I was going to be
exhausted
when we got to Camp 4...
That I’d be dead.
We’re finally in good shape!
I thought
I was going to feel like shit...
but in the end I got here,
and...
I feel okay, dude!
And... there’s nothing more
satisfying...
than feeling ready.
But that’s the goal,
to be okay...
and to be safe.
To be clear about
what you’re doing...
to be
clear about the situation...
to understand what’s
going on around you...
That’s what’s most important.
Then you can make good decisions.
Are you good?
I’m so good. So, so good.
-What do we need to leave?
-Me too.
9 or 10, maybe.
And how many
hours to the summit?
9 or 10 hours?
9 or 10 hours to
reach the summit?
It will depend on the traffic,
though. There’s lots of people.
-A lot of people, huh?
-Yeah.
In 24 hours,
all this will be over.
The project is coming to an end.
It’s... kind of scary.
Whatever happens, Mathis, uh...
I want to thank you.
So, now it’s 9pm.
We have a long
night ahead of us.
There’s no wind,
the conditions are perfect...
but it’s so cold that it stings.
Man! It’s time to go! Man!
Let’s do this.
-Let’s go, Manish.
-Yep.
Here we go!
To the summit!
The final ascent!
With the whole team.
We’re gonna do it guys.
I’ll give it my all,
I won’t give up!
It’s Ama Dablam!
Crazy, huh?
This is scary.
There’s a lot of emptiness.
I didn’t think it
would be like that.
Everything is so steep.
I confess... I’m scared.
Goddamn...
Ugh, I hate this. I hate it.
A dead climber.
Wait, where? Whoa, holy shit!
How many years has he been here?
-3 years old.
-3 years?
Yeah.
Oh no, that’s crazy.
Oh, my god...
I’m scared Mathis.
I’m scared now.
No, it’s okay, it’s okay...
I’m scared, dammit!
There are too many people.
Come on!
Just a little bit further!
We’re almost there.
We’re almost there!
Just breathe...
and listen...
and observe...
and before you
know it, you’ll be at the top.
I fucking did it!
I fucking did it.
We did it, bro!
We did it!
Come on, we did it!
You did it! You did it, man.
You did it.
Thank you, Manish! We did it.
We did it, man!
We fucking did it.
-You did it. You did it, bro.
-Thank you, Mathis.
Thanks, it’s all thanks to you!
And it’s all thanks to you guys!
Without the Sherpas...
we would never be here!
We never would have made it!
And thanks
to everyone who believed in me...
Mathis, we did it bro!
Dude, we did it... Come on!
I always wondered
what it meant to be the best...
It’s being around you guys,
who are all stronger than me.
I know I’m not alone!
The Sherpas all helped me.
In the end...
I did it with oxygen,
but there are
those who do it without oxygen!
They’re the real bosses!
They’re the ones who
should be congratulated!
We
shouldn’t try to be the best...
we should just try to be...
we should try to be better than,
than yesterday.
We should all do projects...
We have to stop...
being behind screens, and...
and scrolling,
and living vicariously.
Get outside!
If you have a project, do it...
and don’t listen to people...
because if I had listened to
people, I wouldn’t be here,
dammit!
I wouldn’t be here!
So, don’t listen to people, okay!
If you want to do something...
then do it!
It doesn’t matter if you fail!
You still learned something!
Life is made for learning!
That’s how we live!
That’s how we...
Dude... this year dude I
learned about life, bro, I swear.
I feel so alive!
Without you,
I wouldn’t be here, man!
You know that... without you,
I wouldn’t be here either.
In life, nothing is done alone...
No.
it’s better
to do it with friends.
Thanks to all my friends...
who have always been there...
And thanks
to Idriss who trained me.
Thanks to all my partners...
who are out there...
who believed in me!
And thanks to all
my subscribers...
who have always supported me, no
matter what, on all my projects.
This is our summit,
I’m not alone, you guys.
We did this together.
Unwrap the ribbon,
there’s a surprise inside.
“You are an inspiring man...
I gave you life...
and you gave that life meaning
with your first inspiration.
Your mom.”
Dude, you know...
I never tell
my parents that I love them,
but damn, I swear,
that when I was editing,
I was so scared, bro! I
fucking love my parents so much!
You killed it dude! You did good.
You did really good.
Thank you, Ila Nuru...
Thank you, Manish.
Hey, look...
this is for Manish!
Manish, congratulations my bro!
You did it, bro!
We did it, bro!
My bro!
Congratulations my, bro!
Together we did it, my friend.
And now...
we’re going back.
It’s not finished...
we need to go back, okay?
Yes.
Good job, bro.
It was both extraordinary...
and at the same time, terrifying!
And when I was there,
I thought,
“Damn, I’m here risking my life.”
It was overwhelming,
you’re up so high...
and you’re dependent on oxygen.
I’m so scared Mathis.
Being that high
up is terrifying!
Go fast, go fast!
Everyone move! Fast, fast, fast!
We’re
coming down from the summit...
we’re following the ridge...
and in the
distance we hear screams.
Hurry, hurry! Go fast!
Go fast! Fast, fast, fast!
The ledge we were on 40
minutes earlier collapsed.
6 climbers fell at once.
Four of them managed
to hang on and the
other two went down the mountain.
They tumbled down the slope...
for 3000 meters.
They died down there.
But at the time,
I didn’t know that.
I didn’t see them,
I just heard the screams.
You’re up
there with an oxygen mask,
you can’t talk, you don’t
understand what’s going on...
And I realized that it’s not just
the mountain that’s dangerous.
It’s the human beings.
When there’s
a place that’s technical...
and
someone isn’t trained enough...
it’s going
to create traffic jams...
and that’s dangerous.
And that’s what happened.
We just found a guy who’s...
on the verge of life and death.
So, Inès gave him the
rest of the oxygen that...
he had.
He changed out the tank.
And so, I went without oxygen...
-on our trip back down.
-Goodbye, then.
Well, now, it’s my turn...
for being tired.
-I don’t know if...
-Are you going to be okay?
Well, I gave my tank to that guy,
but...
wow, I can already
feel the difference.
It’s been 24
hours since we stopped walking.
Thank you so much.
It was hard.
It was hard mentally,
it was hard physically...
but I’m so glad
we did it together.
Um, now back to reality...
There’s a very good energy.
My son will see my video...
My son will see
that his father climbed Everest
when he was 22 years old.
Everest at 22...
My son! Don’t compare yourself...
Do what you like, that’s what’s
important,
if you ever watch this.
It doesn’t matter,
if you want to be a cartoonist...
just make
the project the best it can be.
Is that my dad?
I’m so proud of his success.
When I was younger, I...
I did what I wanted to do,
and now, it’s his turn, so...
It’s true that it’s a little
weird for me because
my generation and his
are completely different!
And...
I’m used to it now, but before
I was stubborn and would say,
“No, I’m the one who’s right,
not you,” and... well,
now I’ve changed
my mind a little bit.
I’ve adapted. Yeah, I’ve adapted.
I had to, because I’m not stupid,
you know?
Because, well...
there are times when you have
to listen to the young people,
so I listen to him.
After Everest...
I didn’t want to make the same
mistake I made after Ama Dablam.
I didn’t go back to Paris...
I didn’t go back to the videos...
I didn’t go back to my phone...
I needed to take
a step back and disconnect...
and savor
the end of this adventure.
So, now I’m...
isolated here.
It’s crazy,
because you’ve just arrived...
but I’ve
been here for three weeks.
I go from farm to farm, and I...
I work in the fields.
Every day, right?
Yeah, Every day, every day.
Did you tell him about your
experience in Nepal or not?
Yeah.
That’s actually how I
came to work on his farm.
I went to
visit his farm one day...
and I introduced
myself and told my story.
And he said, “No!
You really did that?
You need to come
work on my farm!”
And I said, okay, and after that,
we’ve been working together.
I get up in the morning...
at 6am...
and I go milk the cows.
Then we cut the banana leaves...
I plant rice...
and in the
afternoon, I have my free time.
So,
every rice shoot that I plant...
will give one to two bunches...
of rice grains.
And everything we’ve
done since this morning...
all those hours...
will only yield
four bags of rice.
Well,
he’s a very determined young man.
And he works and
works without fear.
Honestly, it’s incredible here.
And the fact that...
I don’t have a phone,
that I’m disconnected...
and I can take time for myself...
and discover how to do new
things I’ve never done before...
like I did with the mountain.
I really liked mountaineering...
and I’ll continue to do it.
There’s no doubt in my mind.
I got closer to nature,
I got closer to the
real moments in life.
Things I was missing in life...
because I was always in a rush,
and...
there was the filming,
the videos, and the screens...
And then I realized,
I’ve been here for three months.
We’re all matrixed by our phones,
it’s crazy.
But now,
I’m totally disconnected and...
the phone is a poison!
It’s a drug!
You know...
of course you can
be on your phone,
there’s so much cool
stuff on your phone...
but too often,
we’re not doing anything,
we’re scrolling in the void,
losing braincells!
And I’m including myself! Because
I’m like that too, you know?
Imagine if you
took all that time...
and put down your cell phone...
and then thought...
“I’m going to do it too.
I’m going to get moving,
I’m going to do things too.”
When I
was at the base of Everest...
I was looking at Everest,
and I thought...
“I can’t do it.” It was so
high up, that I thought,
“I can’t do it.”
And I think there
are a lot of people
out there who are like that too.
I think there are a
lot of people who...
have dreams that are so huge...
that they say to themselves,
“It’s not possible,
I can’t do it!”
Even if you see a mountain
that’s so high
it looks impossible to climb!
If you go little by little,
you can climb it.
Just take your time,
and you’ll climb it.
And sometimes,
it’ll be fucking hard!
I really suffered!
I mean...
I’m not a mountaineer!
I’d never done it before.
But I got moving and thought,
“I’m going to go out and explore.
I’m gonna climb Mount Everest!”
Except when I said,
“I’m going to climb Everest,” I
didn’t think that I could do it.
And what I remember,
isn’t even Everest!
It’s everything I discovered,
and...
all the
mountains that I climbed...
And all the adventures I went on,
and all the people that I met.
I opened myself up
to new possibilities.
But that’s called, “Kaizen.”
It’s the name of the documentary.
That’s why I called it “Kaizen.”
It means always improving...
day after day...
getting better little by little.
Small step by small step...
you climb the highest peaks.
I can see the
question coming from
kilometers away, “Inox,
what will you do after Everest?”
I have plenty of
adventures to go on...
plenty of things to do...
and I don’t care
about doing bigger...
or more impressive
things than Everest.
I just want to try
something different.